[RLlib; docs] Docs do-over (new API stack): Rewrite/enhance "getting started" rst page. (#49950)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/rllib/getting-started.rst

.. include:: /_includes/rllib/we_are_hiring.rst

.. _rllib-getting-started:

Getting Started
===============

.. include:: /_includes/rllib/new_api_stack.rst

.. _rllib-in-60min:

RLlib in 60 minutes
-------------------

.. figure:: images/rllib-index-header.svg

In this tutorial, you learn how to design, customize, and run an end-to-end RLlib learning experiment
from scratch. This includes picking and configuring an :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm`,
running a couple of training iterations, saving the state of your

> :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` from time to time, running a separate

Reviewer: Awesome! This is what most people are looking for.

evaluation loop, and finally utilizing one of the checkpoints to deploy your trained model
to an environment outside of RLlib and compute actions.

You also learn how to customize your :ref:`RL environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>`
and your :ref:`neural network model <rllib-key-concepts-rl-modules>`.

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, install RLlib, `PyTorch <https://pytorch.org>`__, and `Farama Gymnasium <https://gymnasium.farama.org>`__ as shown below:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install "ray[rllib]" torch "gymnasium[atari,accept-rom-license,mujoco]"

.. _rllib-python-api:

Python API
~~~~~~~~~~

> RLlib's Python API provides all the flexibility required for applying the library to any

Reviewer: Do we have any other API than the Python one?

Author: Nope :D We got rid of the CLI, b/c of the maintenance burden, its stark limitations, and it being more or less a duplicate of a subset of what the python API could do.

Author: Well, we are working on the external access protocol for clients to connect to and communicate with RLlib, but that's heavily wip.

that you want to optimize against, a loss function, an optimizer, and some code describing the
algorithm's execution logic, like determining when to collect samples, when to update your model, etc..

In :ref:`multi-agent training <rllib-multi-agent-environments-doc>`,
:py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` manages the querying and optimization of multiple policies at once.

Through the algorithm's interface, you can train the policy, compute actions, or store your
algorithm's state through checkpointing.

Configure and build the algorithm
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

You first create an :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig` instance
and change some default settings through the config object's various methods.

For example, you can set the :ref:`RL environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>`
you want to use by calling the config's :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.environment`
method:

.. testcode::

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo import PPOConfig

    # Create a config instance for the PPO algorithm.
    config = (
        PPOConfig()
        .environment("Pendulum-v1")
    )

> To scale your setup and define, how many EnvRunner actors you want to leverage,

Reviewer: Shall we put all class names into ``?

Reviewer: Also we might want to add that these `EnvRunner`s are used to rollout the policy and collect samples?

Author: done

you can call the :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.env_runners` method:

.. testcode::

    config.env_runners(num_env_runners=3)

For training-related settings or any algorithm-specific settings, use the
:py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.training` method:

.. testcode::

    config.training(
        lr=0.0002,
        train_batch_size_per_learner=2000,
        num_epochs=10,
    )

Finally, you build the actual :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` instance
through calling your config's :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithm.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.build_algo`
method.

.. testcode::

    # Build the Algorithm (PPO).

>     ppo = config.build_algo()

Reviewer: Does `build` still work?

Author: Yup, but you get a warning.

.. note::

    See here to learn about the :ref:`methods you can use to configure your Algorithm <rllib-algo-configuration-docs>`.

Run the algorithm
+++++++++++++++++

After you built your :ref:`PPO <ppo>` from its configuration, you can ``train`` it for a number of
iterations through calling the :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm.train` method,
which returns a result dictionary that you can pretty-print for debugging purposes:

.. testcode::

    from pprint import pprint

    for _ in range(5):

>         pprint(ppo.train())

Reviewer: Nice!

for the sole purpose of evaluating your model from time to time on the RL environment.

Use your config's :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.evaluation` method
to set up the details. By default, RLlib doesn't perform evaluation during training and only reports the
results of collecting training samples with its "regular" :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.env_runner_group.EnvRunnerGroup`.

.. testcode::
    :hide:

    ppo.stop()

.. testcode::

    config.evaluation(
        # Run one evaluation round every iteration.
        evaluation_interval=1,

        # Create 2 eval EnvRunners in the extra EnvRunnerGroup.
        evaluation_num_env_runners=2,

        # Run evaluation for exactly 10 episodes. Note that because you have
        # 2 EnvRunners, each one runs through 5 episodes.
        evaluation_duration_unit="episodes",
        evaluation_duration=10,
    )

    # Rebuild the PPO, but with the extra evaluation EnvRunnerGroup
    ppo_with_evaluation = config.build()

    for _ in range(3):
        pprint(ppo_with_evaluation.train())

.. _rllib-with-ray-tune:

RLlib with Ray Tune
+++++++++++++++++++

> All RLlib :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` classes are compatible with

Reviewer: That's not true: All offline RL classes in the new stack do not work with Ray Tune, yet.

Author: done

    ╭──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
    │ Trial name                    status         lr     iter     total time (s)  episode_return_mean    ..._sampled_lifetime │
    ├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
    │ PPO_Pendulum-v1_b5c41_00000   RUNNING    0.01         29            86.2426             -998.449                  108000 │
    │ PPO_Pendulum-v1_b5c41_00001   RUNNING    0.001        25            74.4335             -997.079                  100000 │
    │ PPO_Pendulum-v1_b5c41_00002   RUNNING    0.0001       20            60.0421             -960.293                   80000 │
    ╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

``Tuner.fit()`` returns an ``ResultGrid`` object that allows for a detailed analysis of the
training process and for retrieving the :ref:`checkpoints <rllib-checkpoints-docs>` of the trained
algorithms and their models:

.. testcode::
    # Get the best result based on a particular metric.

>     best_result = results.get_best_result(

Reviewer: Maybe we set `scope="last"` in `get_best_result` explicitly to clarify these are the last iterations from each trial we choose the best result from?

Author: Ok, good idea.

Author: done

    import gymnasium as gym
    import numpy as np
    import torch
    from ray.rllib.core.rl_module import RLModule

    # Create only the neural network (RLModule) from our algorithm checkpoint.
    rl_module = RLModule.from_checkpoint(
        Path(best_checkpoint.path) / "learner_group" / "learner" / "rl_module"
    )["default_policy"]

    # Create the RL environment to test against (same as was used for training earlier).
    env = gym.make("Pendulum-v1", render_mode="human")

    episode_return = 0.0
    done = False

    # Reset the env to get the initial observation.
    obs, info = env.reset()

    while not done:
        # Render the env.
        env.render()

        # Compute the next action from a batch (B=1) of observations.
        obs_batch = torch.from_numpy(obs).unsqueeze(0)  # add batch B=1 dimension
        model_outputs = rl_module.forward_inference({"obs": obs_batch})
        # Extract the logits from the output and dissolve batch again.
        action_logits = model_outputs["action_dist_inputs"][0]
        # PPO's default RLModule produces action logits (from which
        # you have to sample an action or use the max-likelihood one).

>         action = numpy.argmax(action_logits.numpy())

Reviewer: I admit, this is an easy setup and could support understanding how exactly the "optimal" action is computed in inference. However the way how we do it in evaluation is to build the corresponding action distribution - here `DiagGaussian` and convert it to a deterministic one - using `to_deterministic` - doing basically what we show above explicitly. I am unsure, if we might show this here or the simplisitic form that is shown here already.

Author: 🤔

        # Send the action to the environment for the next step.
        obs, reward, terminated, truncated, info = env.step(action)

        # Perform env-loop bookkeeping.
        episode_return += reward
        done = terminated or truncated

    print(f"Reached episode return of {episode_return}.")

Alternatively, if you still have an :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` instance up and running
in your script, you can get the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule` through the
:py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm.get_module` method:

.. testcode::

>     rl_module = ppo_with_evaluation.get_module("default_policy")

Reviewer: Nice! So simple!

Customizing your RL environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the preceding examples, your :ref:`RL environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>` was
a `Farama gymnasium <gymnasium.farama.org>`__ pre-registered one,
like ``Pendulum-v1`` or ``CartPole-v1``. However, if you would like to run your
experiments against a custom one, see this tab below for a less-than-50-lines example.

See here for an :ref:`in-depth guide on how to setup RL environments in RLlib <rllib-environments-doc>`
and how to customize them.

.. dropdown:: Quickstart: Custom RL environment
    :animate: fade-in-slide-down

    .. testcode::

        import gymnasium as gym
        from ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo import PPOConfig

        # Define your custom env class by subclassing gymnasium.Env:

        class ParrotEnv(gym.Env):

>             """Environment in which the agent learns to repeat the seen observations.

Reviewer: Haha! Awesome!

                self._episode_len = 0

            def reset(self, *, seed=None, options=None):
                """Resets the environment, starting a new episode."""
                # Reset the episode len.
                self._episode_len = 0
                # Sample a random number from our observation space.
                self._cur_obs = self.observation_space.sample()
                # Return initial observation.
                return self._cur_obs, {}

            def step(self, action):
                """Takes a single step in the episode given `action`."""
                # Set `terminated` and `truncated` flags to True after 10 steps.
                self._episode_len += 1
                terminated = truncated = self._episode_len >= 10
                # Compute the reward: `r = -abs([obs] - [action])`
                reward = -sum(abs(self._cur_obs - action))
                # Set a new observation (random sample).
                self._cur_obs = self.observation_space.sample()
                return self._cur_obs, reward, terminated, truncated, {}

        # Point your config to your custom env class:
        config = (
            PPOConfig()

>             .environment(ParrotEnv)  # add `env_config=[some Box space] to customize the env

Reviewer: Maybe a missing " ` "?

        ppo_w_custom_env.train()

    .. testcode::
        :hide:

        # Test that our setup is working.
        ppo_w_custom_env.stop()

Customizing your models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the preceding examples, because you didn't specify anything in your
:py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig`, RLlib provided a default
neural network model. If you would like to either reconfigure the type and size of RLlib's default models,
for example define the number of hidden layers and their activation functions,
or even write your own custom models from scratch using PyTorch, see here
for a :ref:`detailed guide on the RLModule class <rlmodule-guide>`.

See this tab below for a 30-lines example.

.. dropdown:: Quickstart: Custom RLModule
    :animate: fade-in-slide-down

    .. testcode::

        import torch

        from ray.rllib.core.columns import Columns
        from ray.rllib.core.rl_module.torch import TorchRLModule

        # Define your custom env class by subclassing `TorchRLModule`:
        class CustomTorchRLModule(TorchRLModule):
            def setup(self):
                # You have access here to the following already set attributes:

>                 # self.observation_space

Reviewer: Great description!!

RLlib in 60 minutes
-------------------

.. figure:: images/rllib-index-header.svg

In this tutorial, you learn how to design, customize, and run an end-to-end RLlib learning experiment
from scratch. This includes picking and configuring an :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm`,
running a couple of training iterations, saving the state of your
:py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` from time to time, running a separate
evaluation loop, and finally utilizing one of the checkpoints to deploy your trained model
to an environment outside of RLlib and compute actions.

You also learn how to customize your :ref:`RL environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>`
and your :ref:`neural network model <rllib-key-concepts-rl-modules>`.

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, install RLlib, `PyTorch <https://pytorch.org>`__, and `Farama Gymnasium <https://gymnasium.farama.org>`__ as shown below:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install "ray[rllib]" torch "gymnasium[atari,accept-rom-license,mujoco]"

.. _rllib-python-api:

Python API
~~~~~~~~~~

RLlib's Python API provides all the flexibility required for applying the library to any
type of RL problem.

> You manage RLlib experiments through an instance of the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Manage RLlib experiments using an instance of the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm`
```

class. An :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` typically holds a neural
network for computing actions, called ``policy``, the :ref:`RL environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>`
that you want to optimize against, a loss function, an optimizer, and some code describing the

> algorithm's execution logic, like determining when to collect samples, when to update your model, etc..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
algorithm's execution logic, like determining when to collect samples, when to update your model, etc.
```

In :ref:`multi-agent training <rllib-multi-agent-environments-doc>`,
:py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` manages the querying and optimization of multiple policies at once.

> Through the algorithm's interface, you can train the policy, compute actions, or store your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the algorithm's interface, you can train the policy, compute actions, or store the
```

> algorithm's state through checkpointing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
algorithm's state with checkpointing.
```

Configure and build the algorithm
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

> You first create an :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig` instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First create an :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig` instance
```

> and change some default settings through the config object's various methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and change some default settings using various config object methods.
```

For example, you can set the :ref:`RL environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>`

> you want to use by calling the config's :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.environment`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by calling the config's :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.environment`
```

method:

.. testcode::

    from ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo import PPOConfig

    # Create a config instance for the PPO algorithm.
    config = (
        PPOConfig()
        .environment("Pendulum-v1")
    )

> To scale your setup and define, how many :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.env_runner.EnvRunner` actors you want to leverage,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To scale the setup and define how many :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.env_runner.EnvRunner` actors to leverage,
```

you can call the :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.env_runners` method.

> ``EnvRunners`` are used to collect samples for training updates from your :ref:`environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RLlib uses ``EnvRunners`` to collect samples for training updates from your :ref:`environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>`.
```

.. testcode::

    config.env_runners(num_env_runners=3)

For training-related settings or any algorithm-specific settings, use the
:py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.training` method:

.. testcode::

    config.training(
        lr=0.0002,
        train_batch_size_per_learner=2000,
        num_epochs=10,
    )

> Finally, you build the actual :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, build the actual :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` instance
```

> through calling your config's :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.build_algo`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by calling your config's :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.build_algo`
```

method.

.. testcode::

    # Build the Algorithm (PPO).
    ppo = config.build_algo()

.. note::

    See here to learn about all the :ref:`methods you can use to configure your Algorithm <rllib-algo-configuration-docs>`.

Run the algorithm
+++++++++++++++++

After you built your :ref:`PPO <ppo>` from its configuration, you can ``train`` it for a number of
iterations through calling the :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm.train` method,
which returns a result dictionary that you can pretty-print for debugging purposes:

.. testcode::

    from pprint import pprint

    for _ in range(5):
        pprint(ppo.train())

Checkpoint the algorithm
++++++++++++++++++++++++

To save the current state of your :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm`,

> create a checkpoint through calling its :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm.save_to_path` method,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
create a checkpoint by calling its :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm.save_to_path` method,
```

which returns the directory of the saved checkpoint.

> Instead of not passing any arguments to this call and letting the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` decide where to save

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't pass any arguments to this call, the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` decides where to save
```

> the checkpoint, you can also provide a checkpoint directory yourself:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the checkpoint. You can also specify a checkpoint directory:
```

.. testcode::

    checkpoint_path = ppo.save_to_path()

    # OR:
    # ppo.save_to_path([a checkpoint location of your choice])

Evaluate the algorithm
++++++++++++++++++++++

RLlib supports setting up a separate :py:class:`~ray.rllib.env.env_runner_group.EnvRunnerGroup`
for the sole purpose of evaluating your model from time to time on the :ref:`RL environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>`.

> Use your config's :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.evaluation` method

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the config :py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig.evaluation` method
```

the :ref:`Ray Tune API <tune-api-ref>`.

.. note::

    The offline RL algorithms, like :ref:`BC <bc>`, :ref:`CQL <cql>`, and :ref:`MARWIL <marwil>`
    require more work on :ref:`Tune <tune-main>` and :ref:`Ray Data <data>`
    to add Ray Tune support.

This integration allows for utilizing your configured :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` in
:ref:`Ray Tune <tune-main>` experiments.

For example, the following code performs a hyper-parameter sweep of your :ref:`PPO <ppo>`, creating three ``Trials``,
one for each of the configured learning rates:

.. testcode::

    from ray import train, tune
    from ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo import PPOConfig

    config = (
        PPOConfig()
        .environment("Pendulum-v1")
        # Specify a simple tune hyperparameter sweep.
        .training(
            lr=tune.grid_search([0.001, 0.0005, 0.0001]),
        )
    )

    # Create a Tuner instance to manage the trials.
    tuner = tune.Tuner(
        config.algo_class,
        param_space=config,
        # Specify a stopping criterion. Note that the criterion has to match one of the
        # pretty printed result metrics from the results returned previously by

>         # ``.train()``. Also note that -1100 is not a good episode return for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # ``.train()``. Also note that -1100 isn't a good episode return for
```

>         # Pendulum-v1, we are using it here to shorten the experiment time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # Pendulum-v1. This example uses it to shorten the experiment time.
```

    ╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

``Tuner.fit()`` returns a ``ResultGrid`` object that allows for a detailed analysis of the
training process and for retrieving the :ref:`checkpoints <rllib-checkpoints-docs>` of the trained
algorithms and their models:

.. testcode::
    # Get the best result of the final iteration, based on a particular metric.
    best_result = results.get_best_result(
        metric="env_runners/episode_return_mean",
        mode="max",
        scope="last",
    )

    # Get the best checkpoint corresponding to the best result
    # from the preceding experiment.
    best_checkpoint = best_result.checkpoint

Deploy a trained model for inference
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

After training, you might want to deploy your models into a new environment, for example
to run inference in production. For this purpose, you can use the checkpoint directory created
in the preceding example. To read more about checkpoints, model deployments, and restoring algorithm state,

> see this :ref:`page on checkpointing <rllib-checkpoints-docs>` here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
see :ref:`rllib-checkpoints-docs` here.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this syntax renders the title of the section. Apologies if I got this wrong.

Author: Ah, great, good to know.

> Here is how you would create a new model instance from the checkpoint and run inference through

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code creates a new model instance from the checkpoint and runs inference through
```

> a single episode of your RL environment. Note in particular the use of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a single episode of an RL environment. Note in particular the use of the
```

:py:meth:`~ray.rllib.utils.checkpoints.Checkpointable.from_checkpoint` method to create
the model and the
:py:meth:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule.forward_inference`
method to compute actions:

.. testcode::

    from pathlib import Path
    import gymnasium as gym
    import numpy as np
    import torch
    from ray.rllib.core.rl_module import RLModule

    # Create only the neural network (RLModule) from our algorithm checkpoint.

>     # See here (https://docs.ray.io/en/master/rllib/checkpoints.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # See https://docs.ray.io/en/master/rllib/checkpoints.html
```

        # Render the env.
        env.render()

        # Compute the next action from a batch (B=1) of observations.
        obs_batch = torch.from_numpy(obs).unsqueeze(0)  # add batch B=1 dimension
        model_outputs = rl_module.forward_inference({"obs": obs_batch})

        # Extract the action distribution parameters from the output and dissolve batch dim.
        action_dist_params = model_outputs["action_dist_inputs"][0].numpy()

        # We have continuous actions -> take the mean (max likelihood).
        greedy_action = np.clip(
            action_dist_params[0:1],  # 0=mean, 1=log(stddev), [0:1]=use mean, but keep shape=(1,)
            a_min=env.action_space.low[0],
            a_max=env.action_space.high[0],
        )
        # For discrete actions, you should take the argmax over the logits:
        # greedy_action = np.argmax(action_dist_params)

        # Send the action to the environment for the next step.
        obs, reward, terminated, truncated, info = env.step(greedy_action)

        # Perform env-loop bookkeeping.
        episode_return += reward
        done = terminated or truncated

    print(f"Reached episode return of {episode_return}.")

> Alternatively, if you still have an :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` instance up and running

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if an :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm` instance is still up and running
```

in your script, you can get the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.core.rl_module.rl_module.RLModule` through the
:py:meth:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm.Algorithm.get_module` method:

.. testcode::

    rl_module = ppo_with_evaluation.get_module("default_policy")

Customizing your RL environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In the preceding examples, your :ref:`RL environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>` was

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the preceding examples, the :ref:`RL environment <rllib-key-concepts-environments>` is
```

a `Farama gymnasium <gymnasium.farama.org>`__ pre-registered one,

> like ``Pendulum-v1`` or ``CartPole-v1``. However, if you would like to run your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
like ``Pendulum-v1`` or ``CartPole-v1``. To run
```

> experiments against a custom one, see this tab below for a less-than-50-lines example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
experiments against a custom one, see the tab below for a example that's less than 50 lines.
```

> See here for an :ref:`in-depth guide on how to setup RL environments in RLlib <rllib-environments-doc>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See this :ref:`in-depth guide on how to setup RL environments in RLlib <rllib-environments-doc>`
```

and how to customize them.

.. dropdown:: Quickstart: Custom RL environment
    :animate: fade-in-slide-down

    .. testcode::

        import gymnasium as gym
        from ray.rllib.algorithms.ppo import PPOConfig

        # Define your custom env class by subclassing gymnasium.Env:

        class ParrotEnv(gym.Env):
            """Environment in which the agent learns to repeat the seen observations.

            Observations are float numbers indicating the to-be-repeated values,

>             e.g. -1.0, 5.1, or 3.2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            e.g., -1.0, 5.1, or 3.2.
```

                # Return initial observation.
                return self._cur_obs, {}

            def step(self, action):
                """Takes a single step in the episode given `action`."""
                # Set `terminated` and `truncated` flags to True after 10 steps.
                self._episode_len += 1
                terminated = truncated = self._episode_len >= 10
                # Compute the reward: `r = -abs([obs] - [action])`
                reward = -sum(abs(self._cur_obs - action))
                # Set a new observation (random sample).
                self._cur_obs = self.observation_space.sample()
                return self._cur_obs, reward, terminated, truncated, {}

        # Point your config to your custom env class:
        config = (
            PPOConfig()
            .environment(
                ParrotEnv,
                # Add `env_config={"obs_act_space": [some Box space]}` to customize.
            )
        )

        # Build a PPO algorithm and train it.
        ppo_w_custom_env = config.build_algo()
        ppo_w_custom_env.train()

    .. testcode::
        :hide:

        # Test that our setup is working.
        ppo_w_custom_env.stop()

> Customizing your models

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customizing models
```

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

> In the preceding examples, because you didn't specify anything in your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the preceding examples didn't specify anything in the
```

:py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig`, RLlib provided a default

> neural network model. If you would like to either reconfigure the type and size of RLlib's default models,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
neural network model. To either reconfigure the type and size of RLlib's default models,
```

for example define the number of hidden layers and their activation functions,

> or even write your own custom models from scratch using PyTorch, see here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or even write custom models from scratch using PyTorch, see this
```

> for a :ref:`detailed guide on the RLModule class <rlmodule-guide>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:ref:`detailed guide on the RLModule class <rlmodule-guide>`.
```

> See this tab below for a 30-lines example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the tab below for a example that is 30 lines of code.
```
